---
title: Android 14 for Pixels 5 and newer
date: 2023-10-20
---

CalyxOS 5.0.1 - Android 14 is now available for the Pixels 5 and newer.

| Release channel  | Date   |
| ---------------- | ------ |
| Fourteen (testing) | 19 October, Thursday |
| Security express | 20 October, Friday |
| Beta | 20 October, Friday |
| Stable | Skipped due to known issues |

For Pixel 6a, testing was a week earlier, and Security express / beta were a day earlier than the above.

We're also working on supporting the Pixel 8, and porting Android 14 to the Pixel 4 / 4a after that.

### Changelog
* CalyxOS 5.0.1
* October 2023 Security update (2023-10-06)
* Android 14

#### Known issues
* Certain banking apps / website crash. Will be fixed in the next build
* Google has changed how Work profile "Pausing" works. It's more like "Pause apps" now, where only notifications aren't shown, apps keep running. Will be changed to previous behavior.
* F-Droid will ask for unknown sources to install/update certain apps. Will be fixed in the next build.
* Lockscreen shortcuts are missing
* Custom status bar icons are missing
* Custom font selection is missing
* There might be certain other minor issues, but for the most part it should be solid.

### Steps
#### OTA updates for existing CalyxOS users
1. Make sure your phone is running the latest CalyxOS version 4.14.1
1. Backup your data - you can use SeedVault, the included Backup app.
1. Settings -> System -> System update settings -> Release channel -> (Beta or Security express)
1. Then, tap "Check for updates"

#### Fresh installs, factory images
1. Download the factory images from the links below.
1. Please follow the installation instructions at [[install]], but use the latest factory image you just downloaded instead of the one linked on that page.

<table class="table table-striped download">
  <tr><th>Device</th><th>Link</th><th><a href="{{ '/get/verify' | relative_url }}">Signature</a></th><th>SHA256</th></tr>
{% for device in site.data.downloads["beta"] %}
  <tr>
    <td>{{device.name}} ({{device.codename}})</td>
    <td><a href="{{device.factory_link}}">Download</a></td>
    <td><a href="{{device.factory_link | append: '.minisig' }}">Signature</a></td>
    <td class="hash">{{device.factory_sha256}}</td>
  </tr>
{% endfor %}
</table>

### Pixel 6a test build mixup
* We released an Android 14 test build for the Pixel 6a last week, CalyxOS 5.0.0
* We also released a final Android 13 upgrade just after that, CalyxOS 4.14.1
* Unfortunately, that final Android 13 upgrade was also accidendally rolled out to Android 14 users, which wouldn't work given it's a downgrade. Our apologies for this.
 
#### The fix
* If you're running 4.14.1 already with your data intact, you can ignore this
* If you're on 5.0.1 already, you can ignore this
* If you're on 5.0.0 and haven't rebooted yet, you can reboot and then:
* If you're shown a screen with two options "Try again" or "Factory data reset"
* If you keep choosing "Try again" eventually it'll boot back to 5.0.0, at which point it should download and install an update to 5.0.1


### Note

{% include install/security_notes.html %}
