---
title: Android 14 test build for Pixel 6a
date: 2023-10-14
---

CalyxOS 5.0.0 - Android 14 is now available for testing for the Pixel 6a.

It'll be available for the other devices next week, depending on how well testing goes.

### Why Pixel 6a only
* We decided to do the first few test builds only for the Pixel 6a, to make things easier for us
* We like to test every single build before release, and as you can imagine doing that for just 1 device instead of 11 is a lot faster
* Every CalyxOS developer has a Pixel 6a. Some have 2. That makes working much easier. Not everyone has every other device.
* We figured that it'd be easier to start with just one device, fix some bugs and then release it for all.
* We didn't want to release something too buggy / non functional.
* At the same time, no matter how much testing we do, there'll always be something we missed, so it's better to release it and get some feedback.

### Known issues
* All hardware should work
#### 5.0.0
* If you're using secondary users + work profile a lot, suggest waiting for a future build, some fixes are missing.
* Hide apps functionalty is missing.

### Steps
#### OTA updates for existing CalyxOS users
1. Make sure your phone is running the latest CalyxOS version 4.14.0
1. Backup your data - you can use SeedVault, the included Backup app.
1. Enable USB Debugging on your phone.
1. From your computer: `adb shell setprop sys.update.channel fourteen`
1. Then, on your phone: Settings -> System -> System update settings -> Check for updates

#### Fresh installs, factory images
1. Download the factory images from the links below.
2. Please follow the installation instructions at [[install]], but use the latest factory image you just downloaded instead of the one linked on that page.

##### Downloads

<table class="table table-striped download">
  <tr><th>Device</th><th>Link</th><th><a href="{{ '/get/verify' | relative_url }}">Signature</a></th><th>SHA256</th></tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Pixel 6a (bluejay)</td>
    <td><a href="https://release.calyxinstitute.org/bluejay-factory-23500002.zip">Download</a></td>
    <td><a href="https://release.calyxinstitute.org/bluejay-factory-23500002.zip.minisig">Signature</a></td>
    <td class="hash">e7649a2341cefb7f90b438ba68259588f961524c05ed0919a6f34ca85fae1435</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Timeline

The below gives an overview of how the CalyxOS team went about the Android 14 work.

#### August
* We planned out some of how we'd like the Android 14 port to go,
  and starting doing some work in preparation

#### September
* Android 14 was originally rumored to release in September,
  but apparently it got delayed due to a last minute issue.
* We were waiting for it, and also used this opportunity to do
  some more preparation work.
* A big part of that was going through every single change we
  made to Android 13, and re-organizing / cleaning them up
  for easier porting. This was done at [staging/android13-rebase](https://review.calyxos.org/q/branch:staging/android13-rebase)

#### Wednesday, October 4
* Released. Work started
* Google released Android 14 to AOSP, and also for the Pixels 5 and newer on this day.
* We started working on it right away, watching the source code get uploaded, looking at the changes made, and bringing those in for CalyxOS

#### Thursday, October 5
* We ported a good chunk of our changes to Android 14.
* A Chromium Early stable update was released, version 118. We started porting our changes to that too
* Also started working on updating the various included apps for Android 14.

#### Friday, October 6
* We ported the vast majority of our changes to Android 14.
* Testing and review pending at this point.

#### Saturday, October 7
* We finished doing the code changes required for the various Pixels which got Android 14 (Pixel 5 and newer).
* This includes things such as carrier support, tweaks to run Google Camera, and more.

#### Sunday, October 8
* Test day. Make sure all hardware was functional on all supported devices.
* Wi-Fi, bluetooth, mobile data, phone calls, camera, and so on.

#### Monday, October 9
* Started looking at the features that were pending to be ported to Android 14.
* Tested an upgrade from Android 13 to Android 14, making sure that no data was lost.
* SeedVault backup app testing - ensuring backup and restore works.
* Tried porting Android 14 to Pixel 4a real quick. It didn't boot, so we'll try again later after releasing 14 for the other devices.

#### Tuesday - Wednesday, October 10
* Reviewing all the changes done, and finalizing them.

#### Thursday, October 12
* Porting missing features
* Fixing features

#### Friday, October 13
* Final prep for first test build
* Final preparation for the first test build.
* Tested everything left, fixed any issues that arised to fnalize.
* Test, fix, merge

#### Saturday, October 14
* Made the first test build, started doing yet another internal full test run
* Ran into an issue with that build. Found the fix, made another build
* That's what's released as CalyxOS 5.0.0 for Pixel 6a

### Rest of October
* We'll continue working on Android 14. Our plan is to release regular test builds.
