---
title: CalyxOS & Aurora
date: 2023-09-08
---

CalyxOS has always shipped with 2 app stores - F-Droid, and Aurora Store.

We include F-Droid by default because we want to promote free and open source software, but at the same time we would also like to give users an option to use other applications, which is why we include the Aurora Store which lets you download apps from the Google Play Store.

At The Calyx Institute we've always wanted to help the open source software community, and as such we try to contribute our code changes to all of the software we use and rely on, which includes both F-Droid and Aurora Store.

This post is about Aurora Store, [click here for the F-Droid post] (https://calyxos.org/news/2023/09/04/f-droid/)


## TL;DR

* Calyx is now helping to maintain the Aurora Store, for the benefit of both CalyxOS users and all other Aurora Store users.
* We

| App Name | Current status | Future status |
| -------- | -------------- | ------------- |
| Aurora Store | User app in CalyxOS | Same |
| Aurora Services | Included, but without silent install privileges | Removed |

## Aurora Store maintenance
We've [contributed](https://gitlab.com/AuroraOSS/AuroraStore/-/merge_requests?scope=all&state=all&author_username=uldiniad) to Aurora over the years.

In April 2023, one of our team members, Aayush Gupta, got added as one of the maintainers of the [Aurora Store] android app, and has been [working on it](https://gitlab.com/AuroraOSS/AuroraStore/-/graphs/master?ref_type=heads) ever since.

### Aurora Store

We want there to be regular bugfixes, improvements and releases of the app.

We intend to keep it up to date with Android versions. Android 14, and beyond.

We'd like to have automatic updates eventually, where in Aurora Store can automatically update apps in the background (if configured to do so). Currently, it requires you to press the "Update all" button, and then it's able to install all the updates seamlessly without user confirmation

#### Anonymous accounts

* We're aware of the issues currently being faced with the anonymous accounts. Mainly, with rate limits meaning it's hard or impossible to view and search for apps.
* We're trying to work on some solutions.
* The issue only affects those particular "anonymous accounts", if you sign in using your own account, there's no rate limits.

### Aurora Services

CalyxOS ships with a special version of Aurora Services, which does not have any additional privileged permission to install or uninstall apps silently. It can only update existing installed apps silently.

Aurora Store on it's own is able to do that as well, using the "Session installer (default)". As such, we tried to remove Aurora Services in one of our builds. However, we observed some issues with existing users having to re-confirm every single app update. Due to that, we temporarily re-added it while we figure out a way to deal with that.

Aurora Services will get removed in the future, and Aurora Store will just keep working the same for you as it goes through this transition.

### Why Aurora Store

While deciding to go ahead with this, we also considered various other options, such as:

1. Forking
2. Some other way for users to install Play Store apps

However, in the end we decided to stick with improving the official Aurora Store, because that way our work not only benefits CalyxOS users, but also all Aurora Store users.
