---
title: Android 15 test builds for Pixel 6a, 7a, 8a
date: 2024-10-19
---

* CalyxOS 6.0.1 - Android 15 is now available for testing for the Pixel 6a, 7a, 8a. Please report any issues to the testers channel.
* Pixel 6 - 8, Tab, Fold builds will be available shortly, after testing and feedback from the above
* Pixel 9 builds will be available shortly after that as well.

## Testers channel

| Name | Matrix (Primary) | Telegram (Bridge) |
| ---- | ------ | -------- |
| CalyxOS Testers | [#calyxos-testers:matrix.org](https://app.element.io/#/room/#calyxos-testers:matrix.org) | [CalyxOSTesters](https://t.me/CalyxOSTesters) |

## Pixel 6a, 7a, 8a
### Known issues
* All hardware should work

### Changelog
* CalyxOS 6.0.1 - Android 15
* October 2024 Security update (2024-10-05)
* Chromium 130.0.6723.58 (latest stable)
* [Seedvault 15-5.0](https://github.com/seedvault-app/seedvault/releases/tag/15-5.0)
	* New backup format using compression and deduplication
	* Can still restore old backups, but old Seedvault can't restore backups from this version
	* Faster and more reliable backups making snapshots that can individually be restored
	* Auto-cleaning of old backups
	* All backups now mimic device-to-device (allowing backup for all apps)
	* All backups now use a high per-app app quota
	* App backup (for APKs) moved to expert settings
	* Show more information for backups available to restore
	* Fix "Waiting to back up..." showing for apps

### Steps
#### OTA updates for existing CalyxOS users
1. Make sure your phone is running the latest CalyxOS version 5.12.0
1. Backup your data - you can use SeedVault, the included Backup app.
1. Enable USB Debugging on your phone.
1. From your computer: `adb shell setprop sys.update.channel fifteen`
1. Then, on your phone: Settings -> System -> System update settings -> Check for updates

#### Fresh installs, factory images
1. Download the factory images from the links below.
2. Please follow the installation instructions at [[install]], but use the latest factory image you just downloaded instead of the one linked on that page.

##### Downloads

<table class="table table-striped download">
  <tr><th>Device</th><th>Link</th><th><a href="{{ '/get/verify' | relative_url }}">Signature</a></th><th>SHA256</th></tr>
{% for device in site.data.downloads["fifteen"] %}
  <tr>
    <td>{{device.name}} ({{device.codename}})</td>
    <td><a href="{{device.factory_link}}">Download</a></td>
    <td><a href="{{device.factory_link | append: '.minisig' }}">Signature</a></td>
    <td class="hash">{{device.factory_sha256}}</td>
  </tr>
{% endfor %}
</table>

## What about other devices?
* TL;DR: Easier to test with fewer devices, rest coming soon.
* Like last year, we decided to limit the number of devices for the first build, to make things easier for us
* We like to test every single build before release, and as you can imagine doing that for just 3 devices instead of 11 is a lot faster
* Every CalyxOS developer one of these devices. Some have 2. That makes working much easier. Not everyone has every other device.
* We figured that it'd be easier to start with a few devices, fix some bugs and then release it for all.
* Also, because of the way things are, anything that works on Pixel 6a should be fine for 6 and 6 Pro, and so on for the others too.
* We didn't want to release something too buggy / non functional.
* At the same time, no matter how much testing we do, there'll always be something we missed, so it's better to release it and get some feedback.

## Timeline

The below gives an overview of how the CalyxOS team went about the Android 15 work.

### August
* This was the initial earliest expected date, based on past releases
* We were waiting for it, and also used this opportunity to do some more preparation work.
* A big part of that was going through every major change we made to Android 14, and re-organizing / cleaning them up for easier porting. This was done at [staging/android14-rebase](https://review.calyxos.org/q/branch:staging/android14-rebase)

### September 3, 2024
* Android 15 is released to AOSP.
* Android 14 September Security update released for the Pixels.
* We began working on both right away, prioritisting the security update.

### September 5, 2024
* CalyxOS 5.11.0 - September 2024 Security update for Pixel 6 - 8, 11 devices total.
* Work in progress for all of our supported devices

### September 8, 2024
* CalyxOS 5.11.1 - September 2024 Security update for Pixel 3 - 5, FP4, FP5, motorola & SHIFT6mq
* That's 16 devices!

### October 7, 2024
* October 2024 Security update sources uploaded to AOSP.
* Nothing Pixel specific included in this.

### October 9, 2024
* Working on our Android 15 port and waiting on Google's Android 15 release
* CalyxOS 5.12.0 - Partial October 2024 Security update for Pixel 6 - 8, 11 devices total.

### October 11, 2024
* CalyxOS 5.12.1 - October 2024 Security update for Pixel 3 - 5, Fairphone 4, 5, Motos & SHIFT6MQ

### October 15, 2024
* Android 15 is released for Pixel 6 and all newer Pixels
* We began work integrating that right away

### October 18, 2024
* CalyxOS 6.0.0 was being prepared for release, when at the last moment we noticed an issue
* FRP Hardening

### October 19, 2024
* Noticed an issue with SMS sending, due to AOSP not updating apps.
* Found a patch on GitHub, thanks project!
* Included that and a fix for the FRP issue mentioned above in CalyxOS 6.0.1
* This post :)

### Rest of October
* We'll continue working on Android 15 and Pixel 9. Our plan is to release builds regularly.
