---
title: CalyxOS & Aurora
date: 2024-02-23
---

CalyxOS has always shipped with 2 app stores - F-Droid, and Aurora Store.

We include F-Droid by default because we want to promote free and open source software, but at the same time we would also like to give users an option to use other applications, which is why we include the Aurora Store which lets you download apps from the Google Play Store.

At The Calyx Institute we've always wanted to help the open source software community, and as such we try to contribute our code changes to all of the software we use and rely on, which includes both F-Droid and Aurora Store.

This post is about Aurora Store, [click here for the F-Droid post](https://calyxos.org/news/2023/09/04/f-droid/).


## TL;DR

* Calyx is now helping to maintain the Aurora Store, for the benefit of both CalyxOS users and all other Aurora Store users.

| App Name | Current status | Future status |
| -------- | -------------- | ------------- |
| Aurora Store | User app in CalyxOS | Same |
| Aurora Services | Included, but without silent install privileges | Removed |

## Aurora Store maintenance

We've been [contributing](https://gitlab.com/AuroraOSS/AuroraStore/-/merge_requests?scope=all&state=all&label_name[]=Calyx%20Institute) to Aurora Store over the years.

In April 2023, one of our team members, Aayush Gupta, got added as one of the maintainers of the [[Aurora Store]] android app, and has been [working on it](https://gitlab.com/AuroraOSS/AuroraStore/-/graphs/master) ever since.

We want there to be regular bugfixes, improvements and releases of the app. This also involves but is not limited to targetting latest
Android versions, supporting new features and more.

### Aurora Store

Aurora Store `4.4.1` has been recently released. Some of the major features included are:

- Automatic updates for apps,
- Support for signing key rotations as well as certificate verification for updates,
- Better support for apps with shared libraries such as Chrome and WebView,
- Automatic SHA256 & SHA1 verification for downloaded files

and much more.

Our work on the `4.4.1` release allowed us to work on targetting Android 14. The latest nightly of Aurora Store has `targetSdk` set
to 34 (Android 14) which will be part of `4.4.2` release (planned to be release soon). Testing and feedback is highly appreciated!

### Aurora Services

CalyxOS ships with a special version of Aurora Services, which does not have any additional privileged permission to install or uninstall apps silently. It can only update existing installed apps silently.

Aurora Store on it's own is able to do that as well, using the "Session installer (default)". As such, we tried to remove Aurora Services in one of our builds. However, we observed some issues with existing users having to re-confirm every single app update. Due to that, we temporarily re-added it while we figure out a way to deal with that.

Aurora Services will get removed in the future, and Aurora Store will just keep working the same for you as it goes through this transition.

### Why Aurora Store

While deciding to go ahead with this, we also considered various other options, such as:

1. Forking
2. Some other way for users to install Play Store apps

However, in the end we decided to stick with improving the official Aurora Store, because that way our work not only benefits CalyxOS users, but also all Aurora Store users.
